THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY IS MY PERSONAL SUMMARY OF,
THE WAY OF THE WOLF, written by, JORDAN BELFORT.

Please note that my summary might not be understandable if you have no yet read the book, "WAY OF THE WOLF".




CRACKING THE CODE FOR SALES AND INFLUENCE

	• Every sale is the same, a prospect must be certain of three things(scale of 1-10) before buying. It is known as the 3 Tens.
	• The three tens:
		○ The product, idea or concept
		○ You, trust and with you
		○ The prospect must trust and connect with the company
	• Find their certainty on the three tens:
		○ The product, idea or concept
		1. Ask the prospect what they thought about your product.
			i. Eg. Of a 10 on the certainty scale:
				1) It's the best thing since sliced bread.
				2) It fills my needs, and it's a great value for money.
				3) Having a huge weight lifted of my shoulders.
			ii. If prospect is a 5 on the certainty scale.
				1) They want you to : Influence them, they can't make up their mind, so you need to help them decide.
			iii. If prospect is a 1 on the certainty scale.
				1) They are in a state of absolute uncertainty, of the value and efficacy of your product.
				2) They think it is a piece of shit.
		○ You, trust and with you
		2. What do they think about you.
			i. Eg. Of a 10 on the certainty scale:
				1) They think you’re a likeable, trustworthy person, who is not only an expert in your field but also prides yourself on putting your customer's needs first and making sure that if any problems arise you'll be right there on the spot to resolve them.
			ii. Eg. Of a 1 on the certainty scale:
				1) They think you're unlikeable "snake in the grass", a stone-cold novice who'll stick the knife in their back the moment they turn it from you, because all you care about is extracting the maximum amount of commission out of the deal then moving on to the next target as quickly as possible.
		○ The prospect must trust and connect with the company

	• There are 2 types of certainty
		○ Logical & Emotional
	1. Logical Certainty
		○ Based primarily on the words you say(Does the case you've made add up on an intellectual level?)
		○ Actual facts and figures
		○ The features and benefits
		○ Long-term value proposition(Relates specifically to that prospect)
			§ From a sober, emotionless perspective.
				□ Does the idea make sense?
				□ Does your product or service truly fill their needs?
				□ Is it priced fairly?
				□ Does the cost-benefit ratio make it a great deal?
	2. Emotional Certainty
		○ Based on a gut feeling
		○ People don't buy on logic; they buy on emotion(justify their decision with logic)
			§ You need to future pace the prospect
				□ Paint your prospect a picture of the future where they've bought your product and can see themselves using the product and feeling good as a result of it.
				□ Play out the post-buying movie in the best fashion possible.
				
	• DO NOT make a full-blown sales presentation to someone who is not interested in buying what we're selling.
		○ It is not the job of sales people to turn NOS to YESes(We turn "Let me think about it" to a yes)
	• Objections are merely smoke-screens for uncertainty
	• Don't leave a crucial outcome like honest communication up to chance
		○ Ensure it by making it the sole responsibility of the salesperson, and then providing him/her with a bulletproof formula to achieve that outcome every time


INVENTING THE STRAIGHT LINE

	• Common objections are nothing more than a smoke screen for what is holding back the prospect
		○ A lack of certainty
	• After the objection is answered, loop back to the beginning of the sale
		○ Make a follow-up presentation that picks up where you left of, with a goal of increasing the prospect's state of certainty for all three tens.
	• Common objections/smoke-screens:
			§ 14 objections, half of them variations of two:
			§ First:
				□ Bad time of year:
					® Tax time
					® Back-to-school time
					® Christmas-Time
					® Miller time
					® Public Holiday
			§ Second:
				□ Need to speak with someone else:
					® Spouse
					® Lawyer
					® Business partner
					® Accountant
					® Local broker
					® Local soothsayer
	• Take immediate control of the sale, and then move the prospect forward from the open to the close along the shortest distance between the two points(a Straight Line)

Pluto

				
							Open                                                                   Close
			

Uranus


	• When you're inside the boundaries, you're in control of the sale, and moving forward towards the close.
	• When you're outside the boundaries the client is control and you're spiraling off to Pluto or to Uranus.
	• When speaking, it must be directed, it must be powerful, your words must have meaning behind them; and the meaning must create massive certainty in the mind of your prospect as you move him down the straight line.
	• You must first develop immediate, massive rapport, on both a conscious and unconscious level; and second you're gathering intelligence. Aka Qualifying.
	• Gather intelligence:
		1. Identify their needs.
			i. Secondary needs/problems as well
		2. Identify any core beliefs they might have.
		3. Find out about past experiences they've had with similar products.
		4. Identify their values.
			i. What things are most important to them?
			ii. Are they looking for growth/income?
			iii. Do they want to set themselves up for retirement?
		5. Identify their financial standards.
		6. Where does their plans lie
			i. What's keeping them up at night?
			ii. It is knowing your prospect's pain and if needed, amplifying that pain.
		7. Identify where they stand financially
			i. How much money they have in the market right now?
	• When you are of the line, you're looking to (a) continue building on the rapport that you already have, (b) use that rapport to help you gather the more invasive intelligence.
	• 3 Basics of the front half of the Straight Line:
		1. You must take immediate control of the sale.
		2. You must engage in massive intelligence gathering, while you simultaneously build massive rapport with your prospect.
		3. You must smoothly transition into a Straight Line presentation, so you can begin the process of building absolute certainty for each of the 3 Tens.

	• Your past does not equal your future unless you choose to live there.
		○ Act as if you're a wealthy man, rich already, and you will become rich. Act as if you have unmatched confidence, and you will become confident. Act as if you have the answers and the answers will come to you.
	• LOOPING: 
		○ Highly effective objection-handling strategy that allows a salesperson to take each individual objection and use it as an opportunity to further increase a prospect's level of certainty.
		○ Secret sauce to the back half of the sale; allows a salesperson to increase prospect's level of certainty in small increments.
	• 4th& 5th elements of the Straight Line:
		○ 4)Action Threshold:
			§ Prospect must cross this threshold before they feel comfortable to buy
		○ 5)Pain Threshold:
			§ Pain is the most powerful motivator
			§ Humans will move away from whatever they believe is the source of their pain, and move towards whatever they believe will resolve their pain.
	
	5 Core element of the Straight Line:
		1. Prospect must love your product
		2. Prospect must trust and connect with you
		3. Prospect must trust and connect with your company
		4. Lower the action threshold
		5. Raise the pain threshold
	

	
THE FIRST 4 SECONDS

Human beings are fear  based creatures.

	• 3 Things to establish in the first 4 seconds:(You must show that you are:)
		1. Sharp as a tack
		2. Enthusiastic as hell
		3. An expert in your field
	• If you make a negative first impression, then it takes 8 subsequent positive impressions to erase that one negative first impression.
	
	
	• First you're sharp as a tack:
		○ If they don't think that you're sharp as a tack you are wasting your time.
		○ You have to sound and act like someone who can help the prospect fulfill their needs and desires.
		○ Demonstrate your mental speed and agility, fast decision-making, and unique pace of delivery to immediately impress the prospect and build trust.
	• Second, you're enthusiastic as hell:
		○ You must sound upbeat, enthusiastic, and full of energy, and be a positive influence in their lives.
	• Third, you're an expert in your field:
		○ Be an authority figure and a force to be reckoned with.
		○ People are taught to respect and listen to authority figures.
		○ Demonstrate extensive knowledge and understanding of the market, industry, product, prospect, and competitors.
		○ You need to be :acting as if" from the very start, while you educate yourself as fast as possible, to close the knowledge gap.


	• SHOW THEM YOU ARE WORTH LISTENING TO:
		○ Someone who is sharp, enthusiastic, and who has achieved a level of expertise is going to:
			1. Get to the point quickly.
			2. Not waste the prospects time.
			3. Have a solution to their problem.
			4. Be an asset to them over the long-term.


TONALITY AND BODY LANGUAGE

	• Your tone of voice:
		○ How you say what you say has a profound impact on how it's perceived and, for that matter, how you are perceived.
		○ Not just during the important first 4 seconds, but throughout the entire conversation.
	• Human Communication
		○ Tonality -> 45%
		○ Body Language -> 45%
		○ Words -> 10%
	• Use enthusiasm to create massive emotional certainty in the prospect.
	• When the sales encounter is over the phone:
		○ We'll use our ten core tonalities to move our prospect emotionally, while the words they're attached to will move the prospect logically
	• When the encounter is in person:
		○ We'll use our  body language to move our prospect emotionally, while our words will continue to move them logically.

STATE MANAGEMENT

	• Your current emotional state will determine whether or not you'll be able to access your internal resources at that moment to achieve your outcome.
	• The 4 C's
		○ Certainty
		○ Clarity
		○ Confidence
		○ Courage
	• What you choose to focus on
		○ If you spend a couple of minutes focusing on everything that is great in your life -> you'll quickly pop into a positive, empowered state that reflects all those wonderful thongs.
	• Your current physiology
		○ Comprised of the sum off all the possible ways that you can move and hold your body
			§ Posture, facial expressions, how you move your appendages, your rate of breathing, your overall level of motion

FORMULA FOR MANAGING YOUR STATE

	• 5 Basic steps to NLP anchoring:
		1. Choose a state:
			i. Emotional state you want to anchor.(Courage, Absolute certainty)
			ii. Always a conscious decision.
		2. Choose your focus:
			i. Close your eyes and go back to when you were feeling that emotional state.
		3. Choose your physiology:
			i. How you stand, walk, talk, breath.
		4. Intensify your state:
			i. Involves using your five senses:
				1) Visual:(what you see)
				2) Auditory:(what you hear)
				3) Kinesthetic:(what you feel)
				4) Gustatory:(what you taste)
				5) Olfactory:(what you smell)
		5. Set your anchor:
			i. Taking the intense state you just created and linking it to a word or mantra


	• 10 Core influencing Tonalities:
		1. "I care." "I really want to know"
		2. Declarative as a question.
		3. Mystery/Intrigue
		4. Scarcity
		5. Absolute certainty
		6. Utter sincerity
		7. Reasonable man
		8. Money-aside
		9. Obviousness
		10. "I feel your pain"
	• Phrasing declarative as a question:
		○ You tap into the power of 3 separate human desires simultaneously:
			§ To not be perceived as being out of the loop.
			§ To remember people we've met before.
			§ To appear generally agreeable.
	• Mystery/Intrigue:
		○ Lower your voice to just above a whisper and hang on the first letter of the word for an extra fraction of a second.
	• Scarcity
		○ 3 Types of scarcity:
			1. Verbal Scarcity:
				○ Created strictly by the use of words.
			2. Tonal Scarcity:
				○ When you lower your voice to just above a whisper and then put a little oomph into it.
			3. Informational Scarcity:
				○ Information itself is in short supply
	• Absolute Certainty:
		○ Your voice takes a firmer, more definitive tone
	• Utter Sincerity:
		○ This is a calm, smooth, confident, low-pressure tone.


ADVANCED BODY LANGUAGE

	• Pacing & Leading:
		○ If I am sitting in front of you with my arms crossed, and then uncross them, you will likely do the exact same thing -- without even realizing it.
		○ Immensely powerful strategy, and it works with both tonality and body language.
	• Active listening and the Art of matching
		○ When you nod your head, it shows that you get what the person is saying; that you're on the same page.
		○ Matching is an incredibly powerful tool for getting into a rapport with someone, especially when you're in person and you can match both body language and tonality.


ART OF PROSPECTING

	1. Research the marketplace to identify the best prospective buyers
		○ Prospect for a particular product
	2. Develop a cost-effective strategy that gets the company's message in front of as many of these prospects as possible
	3. Embed the message with some sort of offer or hook or call to action that prompts as many of these prospects as possible to enter the company's sales funnel.
	4. Coordinate with the sales department to ensure a seamless handoff of the funnel, so prospects can be turned into customers.

	• 4 Buying archetypes:
		1. Buyers in heat.
			○ Want your product.
			○ Need your product.
			○ Can benefit from your product.
			○ They're prepared to make a buying decision right now
		2. Buyers in power:
			○ Primary difference to buyers in heat:
				○ Aren't consciously feeling any major pain from their unfilled need, which causes them to lack the same level of urgency as buyers in heat.
		3. Lookie-loos:
			○ Most dangerous prospects to enter your sales funnel.
			○ Needs to be weeded out as quickly as possible.
			○ Disguise themselves as buyers in power.
			○ How to identify Lookie-loos:
				1. They tend to ask lots of questions that they seem to already know the answers to.
				2. They make it a point to kick the tires of whatever it is you're selling, almost to the point of over-kicking them.
				3. They let out a large number of ooos and aahs and yups, to reinforce the sense that they're genuinely interested.
				4. When asked about their finances, they either become boisterously overconfident or unnecessarily vague.
	• 3 Main goal of Straight Line Prospecting:
		1. Identify the lookie-loos and the ,mistakes and remove them from your sales funnel as quickly as possible.
		2. Gather the  necessary intelligence from the buyers in heat and the buyers in power, and then continue moving them down the Straight Line towards the close.
		3. Begin the process of turning buyers in power to buyers in heat by amplifying their pain.
		
 

10 RULES OF STRAIGHTLINE PROSPECTING

	• WHEN YOU'RE PROPERLY ENGAGING IN THE ART OF STRAIGHT LINE PROSPECTING, you are the doing the following 4 things:
		1. You're sifting through the prospects in your sales funnel by asking them a series of strategically prepared questions.
		2. You're using these questions to not only gather intelligence but also to separate the buyers in heat an buyers in power from the lookie-loos and the mistakes.
		3. You're continuing to gather intelligence from the buyers in heat and buyers in power, while eliminating the lookie-loos and the mistakes from your sales funnel as quickly as possible.
		4. You're transitioning the buyers in heat and the buyers in power to the next step in the syntax, so they can continue their journey down the Straight Line.
	• 10 Rules:
		1. You are a sifter not an alchemist.
		2. Always ask for permission to ask question.
		3. You must always use a script.
		4. Go from less invasive question to more invasive questions.
		5. Ask each question using the right tonality.
		6. Use the correct body language as the prospect responds.
			○ Nodding your head while your prospect is speaking. This shows you that you understand what they are saying and that you're on the same page as them,
			○ Narrowing your eyes and compressing your lips, while nodding your head slowly, when your prospect is disclosing an issue that is very important to them.
			○ Narrowing your eyes even more while compressing your lips more intensely, if the above topic deals with one of the prospect's pain points. In addition, you'll continue to nod your head slowly while letting out the appropriate oohs and aahs to show that you actually feel your prospect's pain.
			○ Leaning forward when you ask an emotionally charged question, and then continuing to lean forward while your prospects answers (while also using  the active listening techniques)
			○ Lean back when you ask a question that's grounded in logic, and continue to lean back and nod your head in understanding and scratch your chin thoughtfully while your prospect answers.
		7. Always follow a logical path.
		8. Make mental notes; don't resolve their pain.
		9. Always end with a powerful transition.
		10. Stay on the Straight Line; don't go spiraling off to Pluto. 
			



ART & SCIENCE OF MAKING WORLD-CLASS SALE PRESENTATIONS

	• 3 Distinctions that must always be included:
		1. He cares about me.
		2. He understands me.
		3. He feels my pain.
	• Most important benefits of a script:
		1. Sale being able to drag on for as long as necessary, without there being the slightest risk that a salesperson will start saying stupid shit.
		2. You can figure out what tonalities you're going to apply beforehand.
			○ You'll be able to take control of your prospect's inner monologue.
		3. When you open your mouth to speak, the best possible words are going to come out every single time.
		4. You can now focus the bulk of your attention on how the prospect is reacting to what you say.
		5. It allows you to build the perfect airtight logical case for each of the 3 Tens.
		6. It allows a company's management to systemize its sales force by ensuring that the salespeople are saying exactly the same thing to their prospects.
		7. It reduce regulatory problems by preventing a salesperson from exaggerating or making outright false statements.
	• The key to success is twofold:
		1. You need to become proficient in the art of reading from a script without sounding like you're reading from a script.
		2. You need to become proficient in the art of writing a script that will allow you to sound perfectly natural when you read it.
	• ^We prefer to this as strategic preparation^


	• Your script must not be front-loaded
		○ Frame your script not front-load.
	• Focus on the benefits, not the features
		○ They want to know if it will make their life easier, or resolve their pain, or allow them to have more time to spend with their family.
	• Your script must have stopping points.
		○ Have an abundance of stopping-off points, where the prospect will interact with you and affirm that you're still on the same page.
		○ Instead of moving forward, you're going to loop back and give your prospect a little more information that relates to that topic.
	• Write in the spoken word, not grammatically correct English.
		○ You want to be speaking in a casual manner, using layman's terms not in formal English or using overly technical lingo.
	• Your script must flow perfectly.
		○ Are there any tongue-twisters in the prose or sentences that are out of balance, in terms of the number of syllables or beats they contain?
	• Your script must be honest and ethical.
		○ When you are writing your script, you should ask yourself, with every single sentence:
			▪ Is everything I am saying 100% accurate?
			▪ Am I coming from a place of integrity?
			▪ Am I coming from a place of ethics?
			▪ Am I starting to exaggerate facts?
			▪ Am I misleading people?
			▪ Am I making any material omissions of fact?
	• Remember the overarching equation of energy in, benefits out.
	• A Straight Line script is part of a series of scripts.
		○ Always improve your scripts.
	
	
Power of Language Patterns

	• Every word that leaves your mouth must have been specifically designed to feed into one overarching goal, which is to increase your prospect's level of certainty.
	• Order of creating certainty:
		○ The product first.
		○ You, the salesperson second.
		○ And the company that stands behind the product third.
	• In terms of the split between the logical and emotional.
		○ You're always going to build airtight logical cases first and airtight emotional cases second.
	• Be enthusiastic right from the start.
	• Always speak in the familiar.
	• Introduce yourself and your company in the first couple of sentences.
		○ Restate the name of your company a second time within the first couple of sentences.
	• Use power words.(Captures attention and establishes yourself as an expert)
		○ Dramatically
		○ Explosive
		○ Fastest growing
		○ Most well respected
	• Use justifiers.
	• Ask for permission to begin the qualification process

	• Sample questions
		▪ What do you like or dislike about your current supplier?
		▪ What is your biggest headache with your business?
		▪ What would be your ideal program if you could design it?
		▪ Of all the factors that we have just spoken about, what is the most important to you?
		▪ Have I asked about everything that'd important to you?
	• Once you've gone through the script-building process and you've finalized your draft, there are only two things left to do:
		▪ Training and Drilling.
	• 10% of human communication is words; the other 90% is tonality and body language.
	• By memorizing your script, you free up your conscious mind to focus on the 90%.
	


ART AND SCIENCE OF LOOPING

Language patterns that work well with step-down approach

	1. "If you give me 1% of your trust, I'll earn the other 99%."
	2. "Frankly, on such a small sale like this, after I split my commission with the firm and the government, I can't put puppy chow in my dog's bowl."
	3. "I'm obviously not getting rich here, but, again, this will serve as a benchmark for future business."

	• In the form of running additional loops that address one of the following areas:
		1. Increasing their level of certainty for one or more of the Three Tens.
		2. Lowering their action threshold.
		3. Increasing their pain threshold.
	• The action threshold is the collective level of certainty that a person needs to be at before the feel comfortable enough to buy.
	• 4 Ways to lower your prospects action threshold:
		1. Offer a money back guarantee.
		2. Offer your prospect a cooling off or recission period.
		3. Use certain key phrases that paint a picture that runs counter to worries and concerns that a typical high-action-threshold prospect ruminates on.
		4. Use very powerful language patterns that allow you to temporarily "reverse" a high-action-threshold prospect's parallel movies





SYNTAX OF THE STRAIGHT LINE

	• First 4 seconds
	• Build and get into massive rapport, both conscious and unconscious
	• Gather intelligence
	• Transition to the body of the presentation
	• Ask for the order
	• Deflect and build certainty through the process of looping
	• Lower the action threshold
	• Add on pain
	• Close the deal
	• Massive referrals
	• Develop customers for life


10 CORE TONALITIES

	1. "I care", "I really want to know"
	2. Declarative as a question
	3. Mystery/Intrigue
	4. Scarcity
	5. Absolute certainty
	6. Utter sincerity
	7. Reasonable man
	8. Money-aside
	9. Obviousness
	10. "I feel your pain"
